---
layout: page
title: Tock OS Website Terms of Use
permalink: /terms/
---

_Last Updated: April 9, 2024_

The following terms and conditions ("Terms") governs your access to
and use of Tock OS ("Tock", "we", "us", "our")’s website,
https://tockos.org/, as well as any other mobile website or
communication channel connected thereto (collectively, the
"Site"). These Terms constitute a legally binding agreement made
between you, whether personally or on behalf of an entity ("you") and
Tock, concerning your access to and use of the Site.

## 1. Acceptance of the Terms

You agree that by accessing the Site, you have read, understood, and
agree to be bound by these Terms. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH ALL OF
THESE TERMS, YOU ARE EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED FROM USING THE SITE AND MUST
DISCONTINUE USE IMMEDIATELY. You may find a copy of our Privacy Policy
[here].

## 2. Changes to the Terms

We may modify, amend, supplement, or otherwise change the Terms from
time to time at our sole discretion. All changes will be effective as
of the "Last Updated" date stated at the top of this page. Each time
you access the website, you consent to be bound by the most recently
modified version of the Terms.

## 3. Your use of the Site

### 3.1 User Submissions

You are responsible for all materials that you upload, post, email,
transmit, or otherwise make available on our Site or peripheral
project spaces like Slack or mailing lists ("User Content"), and you
represent and warrant that you have all applicable rights to submit
User Content. Tock will not be held liable for any claims that arise
from User Content. These terms shall apply to your conduct in project
spaces, but if those project spaces have their own terms, those terms
shall govern and supersede in case of conflict.

You agree to follow the [Rust Code of Conduct] when submitting User
Content or engaging in project spaces.

### 3.2 Intellectual property rights

Unless otherwise indicated, the Site is our proprietary property and
all functionality, website designs, audio, video, text, photographs,
and graphics on the Site (collectively, the "Content") and the
trademarks, service marks, and logos contained therein (the "Marks")
are owned or controlled by us, licensed to us, or are used under
applicable trademark nominative or fair use doctrines. The Content and
Marks are protected by copyright and trademark laws and various other
intellectual property rights and unfair competition laws of the United
States, international copyright laws, and international conventions.

The Content and Marks are provided on the Site "AS IS" for your
information and personal use only. No part of the Site and no Content
or Marks may be copied, reproduced, aggregated, republished, uploaded,
posted, publicly displayed, encoded, translated, transmitted,
distributed, sold, licensed, or otherwise exploited for any commercial
purpose whatsoever, without our express prior written permission. We
reserve all rights not expressly granted to you in and to the Site,
the Content, and the Marks.

All software distributed by Tock ("Software") is licensed upon the
applicable open source license, unless otherwise specified.

### 3.3 Availability

We reserve the right to modify and change the Site in our sole
discretion without notice. No guarantees are made with respect to the
Site’s quality, stability, uptime, or reliability, and we will not be
liable if for any reason all or any part of the Site is unavailable at
any time for any period.

### 3.4 Restrictions

You agree not to use the Site or post to the Site in any way that
violates any applicable federal, state, local, national, and
international laws or regulations. We reserve the right to investigate
complaints or reported violations of these Terms and to take any
action as deemed appropriate by us, including referral to law
enforcement or regulators for any illegal or unauthorized use of the
Site, or terminating or blocking your access to the Site for any
reason, with or without notice to you.

## 4. Warranty disclaimers

YOUR USE OF THE SITE IS AS YOUR OWN RISK. THE SITE, ITS CONTENT, AND
ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE SITE ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS-IS" AND "AS
AVAILABLE" BASIS, WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED. NEITHER TOCK NOR ANY PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH TOCK MAKES ANY
WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE COMPLETENESS,
SECURITY, RELIABILITY, QUALITY, ACCURACY, OR AVAILABILITY OF THE
SITE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, NEITHER TOCK NOR ANYONE
ASSOCIATED WITH TOCK REPRESENTS OR WARRANTS THAT THE SITE, ITS
CONTENT, OR ANY ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE SITE WILL BE ACCURATE,
RELIABLE, ERROR-FREE, OR UNINTERRUPTED, THAT DEFECTS WILL BE
CORRECTED, THAT THE SITE OR THE SERVER THAT MAKES IT AVAILABLE ARE
FREE OF VIRUSES OR OTHER HARMFUL COMPONENTS OR THAT THE SITE OR ANY
ITEMS OBTAINED THROUGH THE SITE WILL OTHERWISE MEET YOUR NEEDS OR
EXPECTATIONS. TOCK HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND,
WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND
FITNESS FOR PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

## 5. Limitation of liability

YOU AGREE, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, NOT
TO HOLD TOCK OR OUR MEMBERS, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS,
REPRESENTATIVES, SUPPLIERS, PARTNERS, AFFILIATES, OR LICENSEES
RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR REMEDIES OF ANY KIND ARISING
FROM YOUR USE OF THE SITE, OR FROM A DELAY OR INABILITY TO ACCESS OR
USE THE SITE (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, YOUR RELIANCE UPON THIRD
PARTY INFORMATION, CONTENT, VIRUSES, ERRORS, LINKED SITES, AND
SERVICES OBTAINED THROUGH THE SITE) INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, PUNITIVE, LOST PROFITS, LOST
GOODWILL, LOST DATA, WASTE OF EXPENDITURES, COST OF SUBSTITUTE, AND
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF WE WERE EXPRESSLY ADVISED ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION APPLIES WHETHER THE
DAMAGES ARE BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
OTHERWISE.

## 6. Indemnification

You agree to defend, indemnify, reimburse, and hold harmless Tock as
well as our members, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors,
subsidiaries, affiliates, assignors, and licensors from and against
any and all claims, causes of action, actions or demands, liabilities,
damages, losses, fines, penalties, settlements, and costs and expenses
of any kind (including reasonable attorney’s fees), arising from or
related to: (i) your unauthorized use of the Site or Software; (ii)
your breach of any provision in these Terms; (iii) your breach of any
of your representations or warranties made herein; or (iv) your
violation of any law or rights of any third party. We will have the
option to assume the exclusive defense and control of any action to
which Tock is named a party and you agree to cooperate with us in
asserting any available defenses we find appropriate.

## 7. Dispute resolution

YOU AGREE THAT ALL MATTERS AND DISPUTES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO
THESE TERMS ("DISPUTES") WILL BE RESOLVED THROUGH FINAL AND BINDING
ARBITRATION, AND WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON, USA, EXCLUDING WASHINGTON’S CONFLICTS OF LAWS RULES.

The complaining party shall first attempt in good faith to resolve the
Dispute by delivering written notice to the other party describing the
facts and circumstances (with relevant documentation) of the Dispute,
and allowing the receiving party thirty (30) days since the date of
notice delivery to respond. If the Dispute is not resolved within
thirty (30) days after the notice is delivered, the Dispute shall be
resolved by arbitration by the American Arbitration Association’s
International Centre for Dispute Resolution in accordance with its
Expedited Commercial Rules in force as of the date of these Terms
("Rules"). The parties will mutually select one arbitrator, and the
arbitration shall be conducted in King County, Washington, USA. The
arbitration award will be final and binding on the parties and its
execution may be presented in any competent court, including any court
with jurisdiction over either party or any of its property. Each party
will bear its own lawyer’s and expert’s fees and expenses, regardless
of the arbitrator’s final decision regarding the Dispute. Either party
may apply to any competent court for injunctive or other equitable
relief necessary to protect its rights pending resolution of the
arbitration.

## 8. General provisions

### 8.1 Waiver and severability

No waiver by us of any term of condition set forth in these Terms
shall be deemed a further or continuing waiver of such term or
condition or a waiver of any other term or condition, and any failure
by us to assert a right or provision under these Terms shall not
constitute a waiver of such right or provision. If any provision of
the Terms is deemed to be invalid, void, or otherwise unenforceable by
any court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction, for any reason,
that provision will be limited or severed to the extent necessary so
that the Terms will otherwise remain in full force and effect.

### 8.2 Assignments

You may not assign or transfer the Terms without our prior written
consent. Any attempt by you to assign, transfer, delegate, or
sublicense these Terms, or any part thereof, without such consent will
be null and void. Tock may assign, transfer, delegate, or sublicense
the Terms of any licenses and rights discussed herein, at our sole
discretion, without restriction.

### 8.3 Governing law

These Terms will be governed by the laws of the State of Washington
excluding Washington’s conflicts of law rules or principles. All
disputes will be governed in accordance with Section 8.
