---
title: Low-Power Operation
subtitle: Part 2, wherein we prototype a software architecture
author: aalevy
authors: alevy
---

For background, in order to support the Signpost use case, we want Tock
go into a deep sleep state (~5uA on the SAM4L) whenever possible.

Our initial goal is to support the common-case of applications with some
duty cycle that do nothing between active states. For those cases, we
basically only need the AST (asynchronous timer) and TWIS (I2C device)
controllers to be able to wake up the CPU and for the OSC32 clock to run
the AST.

I have an initial attempt in progress which basically relies on the
SAM4L's power manager clock mask registers to tell us whether we can
drop into a deep sleep state. The hypothesis is that we can tweak the
low-level drivers (potentially with minor changes to the drivers that
live above the HIL) to just mask off their clocks when they are not
needed (e.g. not waiting on any incoming transfers to USART3? turn off
the USART3 clock!).

If that's successful, we can check the mask registers in the PM against
a known bit-mask that we know is fine for deep sleep right before the
WFI instruction.

I've managed to get this working for a basic example that uses the AST
and USART. It prints out a string every 5 seconds, which requires the
CPU to sleep both in and out of deep sleep and different times (out of
deep sleep when the DMA is driving the USART for printf). This seems to
work with fairly minimal changes to the USART. The most notable one was
adding a state to wait for the TXEMPTY interrupt (the TX buffer is
empty), which we were intentionally ignoring.

Some issues I'm anticipating, though:

1. The GPIO clock is on by default, and we do nothing to manage it at
the moment. This isn't an issue for GPIO outputs, but the clock is off
during deep sleep and must be on for GPIO interrupts (the EIC controller
is actually used for this case). The way our GPIO system call interface
is written, I believe the way our GPIO system call driver is written, we
lazily disable interrupts, which means we may get into a state where no
processes are waiting on a GPIO interrupt but we don't go into deep
sleep for an unbounded amount of time. I think this is fixable though,
and I don't believe it's an issue for signpost.

2. It's not clear to me yet how exactly we setup the TWIS to operate as
expected during deep sleep. E.g. Can we still rely on the DMA or do we
have to set it up again after wakeup?

3. I don't totally understand how the flashcalw's pico-cache, which we
currently turn on by default, interacts with deep sleep. For example, if
there is an ongoing transaction to flush the page buffer to flash, and
the pico-cache is, does that halt if we go into deep sleep (which
disables the flash's pico-cache RAM clock)?
