---
title: Tock Userland has Graduated
authors: bradjc
---

Recently, [pull request #987](https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/987) was merged,
moving the Tock C userland into its own repository:
[libtock-c](https://github.com/tock/libtock-c). This puts the C runtime for
userland applications on the same footing as the growing [Rust
userland](https://github.com/tock/libtock-rs), and further emphasizes the
kernel-userspace separation present in Tock.

Developing, testing, and using C applications should be the same as before the
split. The repository changed, but the build system is the same.


Tock App Repository
-------------------

The primary concern about splitting C apps into their own repository is it
places a new hurdle in front of new Tock users to get code up and running
quickly. To try to alleviate this, a new feature was added to Tockloader to
allow it to grab a Tock application (`.tab` file) from the tockos.org website,
and install it to a board. This, for example, allows someone to verify that they
can get their board to blink without actually having to compile the blink app.

Doing this is straightforward:

```bash
$ tockloader install blink
```

This is very preliminary support for a remote app repository, but we expect it
to expand in the future.


Loose Ends with the Move
------------------------

The C userland and the kernel have been coupled since Tock was started to be
developed, and many references and pointers in the documentation were
intertwined between them. We have found and tried to straighten out most of
these, but almost certainly there are lingering links or sentences that do not
quite fit anymore. If you find one, please let us know through a pull request,
issue, or on IRC.


Part of a Larger Push
---------------------

As Tock matures, certain components have matured to the point where they are
useful outside of Tock, are shared with multiple individual projects, or need
their own repository and issue tracker. The C userland is one example, but there
are others as well:

- [elf2tab](https://github.com/tock/elf2tab), the tool that converts normal .elf
  files to Tock apps, is shared between the C and Rust userlands and now has its
  own repository.
- The [Tock Register Interface](https://github.com/tock/tock/pull/984) is being
  moved to its own crate so other projects can use it.
- The various `cell`-like types that Tock uses will likely move to [their own
  crate](https://github.com/tock/tock/issues/986) so they can be more easily
  used as well.
